Tuple sketch SQL support (#13887)
apache/druid: docs/querying/sql-aggregations.md

|`DS_QUANTILES_SKETCH(expr, [k])`|Creates a [Quantiles sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-quantiles.md) on the values of `expr`, which can be a regular column or a column containing quantiles sketches. The `k` parameter is described in the Quantiles sketch documentation.<br/><br/>See the [known issue](sql-translation.md#approximations) with this function.|`'0'` (STRING)|

### Tuple sketch functions

> Load the [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) to use the following functions.

Author: I believe all the sketches in the `druid-datasketches` module are currently described in more detail at the linked page: https://github.com/apache/druid/blob/master/docs/development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md

That page also already links to the [Apache DataSketches](https://datasketches.apache.org/) project page which has its own extensive documentation. Is that not sufficient?

> Load the [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) to use the following functions.

Reviewer: IMO we don't need this description added here, since documentation already exists for tuple sketches generally: https://druid.apache.org/docs/latest/development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.html. Admittedly it could use improvement— they are quite terse when it comes to why you might want to use the sketches in the first place— but I'd consider that out of scope for a patch that is about to add SQL bindings.

|Function|Notes|Default|
|--------|-----|-------|

> |`DS_TUPLE_DOUBLES(expr, [nominalEntries])`|Creates a [Tuple sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md) on the values of `expr` which is a column containing Tuple sketches which contain an array of double values as their Summary Objects. The `nominalEntries` override parameter is optional and described in the Tuple sketch documentation.

Reviewer 2: I've noticed you started including "Summary Objects" as part of the description. What does this mean?

I thought the last wording was clearer:

> Creates a Tuple sketch on the values of `expr` which is a column containing Tuple sketches.

It seems that all the Tuple sketches are also ArrayofDoublesSketch objects. https://druid.apache.org/docs/latest/development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.html

Author: I felt adding that information to the descriptions would help clarify things for those familiar with Tuple Data Sketches.

FYI, Summary Objects are explained in the Data Sketches documentation: https://datasketches.apache.org/docs/Tuple/TupleOverview.html

ArrayOfDoublesSketch is a specialized Tuple Sketch whose Summary Object is an array of double values.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the explanation! The doc changes overall look good to me.

|`DS_QUANTILES_SKETCH(expr, [k])`|Creates a [Quantiles sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-quantiles.md) on the values of `expr`, which can be a regular column or a column containing quantiles sketches. The `k` parameter is described in the Quantiles sketch documentation.<br/><br/>See the [known issue](sql-translation.md#approximations) with this function.|`'0'` (STRING)|

### Tuple sketch functions

Load the [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) to use the following functions.

|Function|Notes|Default|
|--------|-----|-------|
|`ARRAY_OF_DOUBLES_SKETCH(expr, [nominalEntries])`|Creates a [Tuple sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md) on the values of `expr` which is a column containing Tuple sketches. The `nominalEntries` override parameter is optional and described in the Tuple sketch documentation.

> |`ARRAY_OF_DOUBLES_SKETCH(dimensionColumnExpr, metricColumnExpr..., [nominalEntries])`|Creates a [Tuple sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md) on the dimension value of `dimensionColumnExpr` and the metric values contained in the list of `metricColumnExpr` columns. The `nominalEntries` override parameter is optional and described in the Tuple sketch documentation.

Reviewer 2: Something that isn't clear to me based on this notation is how to provide multiple metrics columns. For example, if you use this format,
```
ARRAY_OF_DOUBLES_SKETCH(dimension1, metric1, metric2, metric3)
```

How do you know if `metric3` is a metric column, or if it is the optional parameter for nominal entries?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`ARRAY_OF_DOUBLES_SKETCH(dimensionColumnExpr, metricColumnExpr, ..., [nominalEntries])`|Creates a [Tuple sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md) on the dimension value of `dimensionColumnExpr` and the metric values contained in one or more `metricColumnExpr` columns. If the last value of the array is a numeric literal, Druid assumes that the value is an override parameter for [nominal entries](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md).
```

> |`ARRAY_OF_DOUBLES_SKETCH_METRICS_SUM_ESTIMATE(expr)`|Computes approximate sums of the values contained within a [Tuple sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-tuple.md#estimated-metrics-values-for-each-column-of-arrayofdoublessketch) column.

Reviewer: Since `ARRAY_OF_DOUBLES_SKETCH_METRICS_SUM_ESTIMATE` is a regular function (as opposed to an aggregation function) it should go in `querying/sql-scalar.md`.

Reviewer 2: @frankgrimes97 When you move this content to sql-scalar.md, please also update the link in `sql-functions.md`.

```
**Function type:** [Scalar, sketch](sql-scalar.md#sketch-functions)
```
